wordsmithing (#54)
con/opfvta-replication-2023: article/abstract.tex

\section{Abstract}

The value of experimental research articles is inextricably contingent on data analysis results which substantiate their claims.
However, it is well-established that the intricacy of data analysis procedures and their high reliance on extrinsic tools makes the computation component fragile.
The inability to re-use code due to instability thus limits the lasting value of the work as a repository of procedural knowledge.

> It is therefore of crucial importance to approach a higher standard of what constitutes "complete analysis instructions" to demonstrate the continued reexecutablity and portability of research, especially "keystone results".

Reviewer: I have concerns about using "complete analysis instructions".
Many systems already do provide nice frameworks for high level instructions to state dependencies and individual steps to achieve results. Usually they are called "workflows" and "pipelines".  There is over 300 of them and one common language to describe them is CWL I recommend to familiarize with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Workflow_Language .

In light of that, as in this paper we are not aiming to provide instructions to humans and what we have a  sandwich full of spaggetti of make/container/bash/python/bash/python/... invocations albeit explicitly coded would not be something someone could have mental capacity to take as instructions for introspection or learning from. 

```suggestion
It is therefore of crucial importance to promote continued reexecutablity and portability of empirical research scholar works, such as scientific articles.
```

Author: I think "complete analysis instructions" is an ideal, and should be tool neutral.

Perhaps the only practical way of demonstrating that analysis instructions are complete is to encapsulate all domain knowledge as code, which could not succeed if it missed a step.

> In this study, we examine a peer-reviewed neuroimaging experiment that uses automated data analysis instructions and we extend it using a collection of best practices, including YODA principals for data management, containers for preservation, Gentoo for long term flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this study, we examine a peer-reviewed neuroimaging experiment that uses automated data analysis instructions and extend it using a collection of best practices, including containers for encapsulation of execution environments, YODA principles for composition, and DataLad for data management and preservation.
```

Author: what about Gentoo?

Reviewer: Nobody besides Gentoo folks would consider it to be "best practices".  Moreover Gentoo was not taken out of the blue -- it was used in the original paper.

Author: I see what you mean, but the claim I'm trying to make is that because we use Gentoo we have an additional layer of protection since Gentoo should make it theoretically easier to rebuild the container and perhaps bump dependency versions. 

Since the original didn't use containers, "rebuildable containers" is a new improvement toward reproducibility, and thought it at least deserved a mention.

I concede it's not the most important point, so I'm ok to remove, even if I am still attached to mentioning "rebuildable containers"

> We have automated the execution pipeline of the target article from end-to-end, dynamically retrieving raw data, performing the analysis, dynamically generating the statistics in the text, figures, and rendering the final meta-article file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this work we have automated the generation of two articles.
We first ensured that the original article is regenerated end-to-end by dynamically retrieving raw data, performing the analysis, dynamically generating the statistics in the text, figures, and rendering the final article file.
We then automated production of this article which includes the comparison between the original published version of the article and the regenerated article.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In this work we have automated the generation of two articles.
We first ensured that the original (target) article is regenerated end-to-end by dynamically retrieving source data, performing the analysis, dynamically generating the statistics in the text, figures, and rendering the final article file.
We then automated production of this meta-article which includes the comparison between the original published version of the article and the regenerated article.
```

We document a number of prominent difficulties with de novo article generation, arising from the rapid evolution of extrinsic tools, and from nondeterministic data analysis procedures.

> To compensate for these difficulties, we use established best practices to provide mutable-state dependency management to preserve the ability to rebuild containers, environment isolation for safety and resource hygiene, as well as established version control technologies for data management and provenance tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate these difficulties, we use established best practices to use software distributions to preserve the ability to rebuild computational environments, environment isolation for safety and resource hygiene, as well as established version control technologies for data management and provenance tracking.
```
